PART I
1. What is the genomic location (chromosomal location) for RBP4?
	Chromosome 10	
2. Which 2 genes flank the RBP4 gene? (meaning which two genes are on either side?)
	PDE6C and FFAR4
3. How many exons does RBP4 have (This could be transcript dependent)?
	6
4. Which exon does the start codon exist?
	2
5. How could I get a list the exons sizes and sequence positions?
	RefSeq file
6. How could I download a list of sequences in fasta format for each exon?
	At the Genome Browser, select RefSeqGene in the 'Genomic Sequence' section, there all 6 exons appear. Hover over each and select to view FASTA.
7. On which strand is the gene transcribed? (note the orientation of the genome is 5' to 3' for the upper strands, the opposite side is referred to as the reverse complement)
	Negative (-) strand
8. Find the homologous RBP4 gene in rat. What chromosome is the RBP4 located on rat? Is it on the same or different chromosomes?
	No, on chromosome 1 in the Norway Rat
9. Is the RBP4 gene flanked by the same two genes in rat that you identified above for human? You can answer this question from information in different places.
	Yes but FFAR4 in humans has 1 more exon


PART II
1. Determining what is known about the HFE gene and protein (using Entrez Gene):
	1. Search for 'HFE" in Entrez Gene. One entry is for the human HFE gene. Retrieve the entry by clicking on the HFE link.
	2. What is the location and orientation of the HFE gene on the human genome?
		Chromosome 6, postive (+) strand
	3. List the genes adjacent to it.
		HIST1H4C, HIST1H1T
	4. How many alternatively spliced products have been annotated for the HFE gene when the RefSeq mRNA entries were reviewed? (HINT: Look for the "RefSeqs maintained independently of Annotated Genomes" section.
		10
	5. Which is the longest splice variant?
		Homo sapiens hemochromatosis (HFE), transcript variant 1
	6. List some of the HFE gene aliases.
		HH; HFE1; HLA-H; MVCD7; TFQTL2
	7. What are the phenotypes associated with the mutations in the HFE gene? (HINT: Look for the
	"Phenotypes" section.
		Alzheimer's disease, Hereditary hemochromatosis, Variegate porphyria
	8. What is the name and function of the protein encoded by the HFE gene?
		hereditary hemochromatosis protein functions to regulate iron absorption by regulating the interaction of the transferrin receptor with transferrin

2. Determining identified SNPs and their locations in the HFE gene:
	1. From the Links menu on right hand side of the page, click on the "SNP: GeneView" to access a list of the known SNPs (reported in dbSNP).	
	2. By default, the SNPs in the coding region of a gene are reported. Currently, how many missense (non- synonymous) SNPs are placed on the longest hemochromatosis transcript variant, NM_000410?
		38
	3. Select the “Clinical Source ” SNPs, and hit the refresh button on the form. How many of these have links to OMIM (Clinically Associated)? (HINT: Look for the OMIM gif in the "Clinically Associated" column.
		31 total
	4. We will concentrate on the cys282tyr mutant in the following analysis (rs1800562)

3. Learning more about the hemochromatosis disease and its genetic testing:
	1. Click on the OMIM link next to the one of the SNPs in the SNP report.	
	2. What are the clinical features of hemochromatosis?
		Elevated transferrin saturation,serum ferritin levels, and liver iron content. 
	3. List the 5 types of iron-overloading disorders labeled hemochromatosis.
		HFE1, HFE2A, HFE2B, HFE3, HFE4, HFE5
	4. Which of these is associated with mutations in the HFE gene?
		HFE1	
	5. What is the phenotype associated with the Cys282Tyr mutant? (HINT: Look into the Genotype/Phenotype Correlations).
		Several signs of hematochromatosis. Variable phenotypic expression of iron loading independent of the HFE genotype.
	6. http://omim.org/235200#235200Variants0001


PART III
4. How many clusters did you get with the default "Classification Stringency" = Medium? 
	5 clusters
5. How many clusters did you get with the "Classification Stringency" = Highest? 
	2 clusters
6. What is the "Classification Stringency" doing?
	The higher the stringency, the less functional groups are generated, but these groups contain genes with higher relations
7. In the first cluster, what GO annotations are common across the "annotation terms (x-axis)", aka - The Genes in Gene Group 1 
	Go terms in y-axis
